all right go ahead and turn it on got it
thank you
welcome to the January 10th Pennsylvania
County school board meeting we have a
few closed items to take care of before
we go into our regular session at this
time I need a motion to certify closed
and accident I need a roll call first
thank you Mr Burton here Mr Fitzgerald
Mr Henderson president Ms Merricks Mr
mayles here Mr Moon
Mr Donald here now I need a motion to
certified clothes
[Music]
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon all
right Mr Doss
I eat some closed session please we have
a motion to approve a request for
release from compulsory attendance for
two students based on religious
exemption
second
have a motion in a second any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Dobbs aye
next is motion to waive the limitation
is stipulated in school board policy
gcbfb-pc voluntary donation of sick
leave days to remove the maximum number
of donated sick leave days that may be
used under this policy and allow Ms
Whitney Burke to use an additional 20
voluntary donated sick leave days if
received for the
2022-2023 school year
so move
have a motion in a second any discussion
a second
call please Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon Mr Doss aye
we have a motion to approve personal
changes for January 10 2023 as presented
second
I'm a motion in a second any discussion
on personnel
if not a roll call please Mr Burton uh
Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr mayles yes Mr Moon
Mr Donald
aye
again I want to thank y'all for coming
out tonight like it's pretty like Graham
we don't have a lot to go over tonight
so hopefully we can move along pretty
quick do we have any additions or
changes to the agenda please nothing Dr
Joe I have a motion to approve agenda as
is then
second
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks Mr mayles yes Mr Moon Mr
Doss
aye
okay consent agendas next
we'll be approved
second
any discussion on anything in the
consent agenda
roll call please Mr Burton
aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye
Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Doss aye it brings us to public
presentations and announcements first
it's a character word of the month
responsibility Mr scare from Channel
High
I hope you had a good break
I did enjoyed it very nice of course I'm
retired I stay on break all the time but
I just a lot of work a lot of food
good evening board members and anyone
else that may be watching here or at
home I'm back again today to discuss
with you a word that incites a grand
sense of purpose responsibility
coming in all forms responsibility means
something different to everyone
some feel a responsibility to excel in
their occupation
others may feel a responsibility to tell
the truth and do what is morally right
to my mom it means putting away the
dishes and starting a load of laundry
before the 16th time that she tells me
for me I feel a responsibility to follow
through for those who rely on me
I feel a burning desire to do what is
best and to be the best because that is
what it feels like everyone expects of
me
it wasn't until recently that I realized
that there are two ways to look at
responsibility
and I wanted to explain them with a poem
by jazz
quote but then I realized there was a
difference in taking responsibility and
being responsible
I could either do what other people
expected of me or wanted me to do and
accept that as my responsibility to
appease them
or I could do what I wanted to do and
take responsibility to make that happen
for myself because I wanted to
and that was the difference in
definition
I've come to realize that it is my
responsibility to be the best but that
doesn't mean better than everyone else
to me being the best means that I work
my hardest to be better than I was
yesterday
to me that is the meaning of
responsibility thank you
thank you
next request to address a bow one I want
to remind you that regulations for
public participation in school board
meetings is policy b d h Dash pc-r
in that we are limited to three minutes
we ask that you please respect this and
hold it to the three minutes we also ask
that you do not call names in a public
setting please
um we're up first who do we have with
Hancock
Mr Danny Alverson Mr Albertson welcome
how you doing
hope you had a good break
got cold though didn't it it sure did
my name's Danny Alverson I'm from the
Westover District just so you know the
time was up on the screen it don't
matter
Martin Luther King Jr said our lives
begin and end the day we become silent
about the things that matter
Albert Einstein says the world will not
destroy will not be destroyed by those
who do evil but but those that watch and
do nothing
Edmund Burke said evil triumphs when
good people do nothing
that was echoed by Thomas Jefferson
John F Kennedy in Ronald Reagan
there is no room for politics on this
school board I'll repeat that
there's no room for politics on this
school board
I don't dabble in y'all's business
but y'all have gotten out of your lane
during your November meeting you push
through a resolution on a gun-free zone
on school board property
this originated with the board member
with a knee-jerkshire action
and a secret that he would not discuss
in public
and had an urgency to push it through
a second member declared that residence
was calling him
telling him asking him about the guns on
school property
I would ask where is Clark Kent
we all know when guns are concealed
they're not visible
the reality is there was an agenda and
it was fueled by a party or person
they wanted the school board to do the
Dirty Work
you thought you could fly under the
radar
the prize fellow board members
you even had the superintendent silenced
that he didn't go to the County
Administrator and spill the beans I
guess
you choose chose not to answer fellow
members
questions on this matter
we spent a whole year talking about
dress codes
you brought about studies sent out
questionnaires had committees
but in 15 minutes
15 minutes
life or death of these students and
others was compromised
not to mention my second amendment
rights
if you push this thing through
and you make it happen
these deputies to come in here to go to
work every day you're putting a Target
on their back
you're also putting a Target on these
people that are handicapped
uh question that judgment and I'm a
little embarrassed over that decision
but I do thank you for your time
and if anybody had any questions
plan to answer
thank you Mr Allison appreciate it thank
you you have a great evening as well
next is the Pea the other Dr Jones I see
you standing in the back
I hope you had a great holiday and got
all rested up
it's good to see you again welcome to
the new year
well sir thank you and Mr Burton I'm not
sick this time I could tell when you
came down just the way you were moving I
know so I appreciate y'all's caring
concern for me I was dog sick last time
and it got worse actually a Christmas
break but uh prayerfully thankfully I'm
better now so we come into the New Year
healthy happy prosperous and then it's
my wish for all of you in your
professional life as well as your
personal life and I do want to say
congratulations
chairman Doss Vice chairman Merricks on
your leadership roles for this upcoming
year Dr Jones good evening to you sir
and wishing you a prosperous second half
of the semester there's a lot of work to
be done particularly when it comes to
legislative action on some things that
are about to happen so I will not
belabor the point I know that tomorrow
we begin the general assembly
and it's a short session so Sani die is
February the 25th and I know for a fact
there's about 25 bills that are related
just to the Virginia Department of
Education and filing was still occurring
even as of today and education seems to
be at the Forefront of that and as your
partner in this in this work we are
working to Advocate on behalf of
students staff all across Pennsylvania
county so with that being said our
actual vea Lobby day was changed this
year usually we go to the last Monday of
the month this year it's actually going
to be on Dr River Martin Luther King Jr
day which will be on Monday during the
holiday and all of you are welcome to
attend there's actually a pre-lobby day
legislative session that's going to be
held Sunday night at the Holiday Inn in
downtown Richmond however there will be
an actual Lobby rally that starts at 9
A.M and then if you have the ability to
go in and meet your legislators which I
will tell you you just don't go in one
day you develop a relationship that you
create and you nourish that throughout
the course of the years okay so this is
an opportunity for you to be able to do
that I know in the past years we've
worked together to see if we could all
go as a Cadre so the change this year is
a little bit different being as
everybody's out that day
so if you do have the opportunity and
the ability I will see you on Capitol
Hill ground at 9 00 a.m on Monday
otherwise I would encourage you to call
your local delegate and House member and
be like hey Senator this is what's going
on these are the issues that are
affecting us particularly from a
financial standpoint and what that
impact looks like so even with the money
that would be coming in from the sales
tax referendum we still have things that
need to be paid for in other capacities
so funding is always an issue that we we
look at health and safety concerns are
also things that we discuss particularly
seeing the issue that happened down on
the Eastern Shore over this past week
and looking to see what can be done to
ensure the health and safety of our
students and our staff because you want
to come to work and you want to leave
that same way and better than when you
came in
so with that being said I look forward
to February having more information to
share and if there are issues or
concerns that you all feel that we need
to discuss or even take to our local
legislators please feel free to reach
out because we're Partners in this in
this work
thank you for your time I'll answer any
questions you have
about any questions
Dr Jones
thank you thank you appreciate it good
to see you again
okay we're gonna move on to staff and
Community Committee reports the next two
items deal with the budget and this way
you want to just go ahead and try to
cover both of them
um and I'll get come back to you in a
minute Mr Moon is that okay I'll come
back to you in a minute if you have any
budget
first one is budget request and the
seconds budget report so kind of roll it
up in one I guess I will I'm good
evening chairman Dahl school board
members and staff I don't have a lot to
report to you tonight as far as budget
requests you receive that information
last Thursday at the budget committee
meeting that list has not changed at
this point so we have no changes to
report there I have been in Richmond for
the past two days Dr Jones was there as
well and this morning we had a very
brief update from Jim reginball I'm sure
all of you have probably heard his name
if you've been to a vast meeting and he
is absolutely amazing I love to hear him
speak
he um shared a little bit with us about
about the governor's proposed budget and
something that he said that I
um thought sounded pretty good for us is
the fact that the governor's proposed
budget and this is the entire proposed
budget not just for Education
um but was actually based on a very
conservative revenue forecast
according to Mr reginball there is
actually more new revenues that have
come in than he has actually used in his
proposed budget
um but you know I like the conservative
approach myself I like to have something
at the end if possible so what that
really means for us is possibly when the
general assembly comes out with their
versions of the budget you know there
could be more money there for education
so we're just going to have to look for
that and hope for that the governor's
overall budget increase new revenues was
3.5 billion dollars and right now he has
placed 400 million dollars of that new
Revenue in K-12 education for the
upcoming year
um and we did learn today because I have
not dug into the overall state budget
but um Governor yonkin does have about a
billion dollars in tax cuts
um in his proposal for fiscal year 24
and those tax cuts are corporate
individual
um there's some more um he's asked for
some more work on the standard deduction
for um for on form 760s for individuals
um but these things also will need
General Assembly approval and we did
learn today that the um
the cut the amount of that um cut could
be about a billion dollars so we are
looking at meeting Revenue forecasts
that will have to happen before these
tax cuts can be considered and then of
course um you know we're all hearing
about the possible recession they're
still talking maybe in a year or a year
and a half
um that's kind of the time frame that
they're given so lots of things to still
to happen in the governor's proposed
budget so um you know for now we're just
going to work with that as we always do
and move forward
um did want to step back one second to
current year budget I did have some time
to review that and if our ADM stays as
it is right now
um we could be looking at about an
additional million dollars in
undesignated revenues that we um would
have for this fiscal year
okay so we are we are watching those
numbers and um we will
um come back to you if um if we need to
um with some ways to spend that funding
um I wanted to update you very quickly
on Governor's budget
we are looking at about four and a half
million dollars in additional state
revenue
for next fiscal year based on Governor
youngin's budget once I take out any
designated revenues for designated
programs we have about 4.1 million
dollars
that we would be able to spend in new
initiatives
however part of that money is the five
percent salary increase
so for us to be able to give a five
percent salary increase to our entire
um all contract employees that's going
to be about three and a half million
dollars
I did mention that there is a bonus
payment in the governor's proposed
budget
learned a little more about that today
and looked into that this evening when I
got back from Richmond
this bonus payment is
um as always State money just for soq
positions it is a one percent retention
bonus
um they also there's a couple of
stipulations you must be hired during
fiscal year 23 so that would be this
current school year
and you must
um still be here in fiscal year 24. you
can't go to another division you have to
stay in the same school division to be
eligible for the one percent bonus and
then of course if we were to do that for
all employees
um we're looking at about an additional
250 000 that we would have to come up
with to make that happen
so when you look at those two items
because they do have Revenue attached to
them so we only get the revenue if we
make the expenditure that would leave us
with about three hundred and fifty
thousand dollars
for what was that list
um several million dollars on on your
list yeah but you can take off the
salary piece off of that so probably
about five million dollars of um
requests from departments and schools
and we'd have about 347 350 000 dollars
to work from that list
the last thing that I did want to say we
received a little bit of Lottery update
and I just thought that was kind of
interesting
um considering what we've been through I
know there's been a lot of talk in the
community about the lottery proceeds and
what are schools doing with Lottery
proceeds when we were working on the one
percent sales tax so this past year the
lottery
um total lottery sales were 3.7 billion
dollars
biggest year ever
and that equated to profits of 779
million dollars all of which did go to
schools
okay the lottery money the lottery on
profit that goes to our Public School
budgets makes up about 10 percent of the
total education budget
so back in the beginning of Lottery when
we received Lottery funds we did receive
those one number just one dollar amount
we could use 50 of it for operations or
recurring and the other 50 percent was
Capital they were the only stipulations
on that money
now today where we are with Lottery
money
um one-third of the amount of money that
we receive from the state that comes
from Lottery dollars it is given two
divisions it's called discretionary and
and it is to a certain extent but forty
percent of that money must be
non-recurring cost
so even though we do get this pot of
money we can really only use 60 of it
um for operations which is what we do or
or any other expenditures that we may
deem necessary but forty percent still
must be non-recurring costs so something
that doesn't happen every year and then
the other two-thirds of that money is um
designated for specific programs so that
has changed quite a bit you know yes
schools are definitely getting the
lottery money but in during Inception of
that you know it was always thought that
we would use that for capital projects
and and we did back in the day but you
know now that is not the case so just
kind of wanted to bring that out in
public for everybody to hear that and
then we did get some pretty interesting
information on um
the new casinos the new gaming
regulation tax and in its first year our
new gaming regulation tax that has come
into the state of Virginia was 28
million dollars and we know that that is
going to increase as other casinos come
online I think it's worth two more for
this current year Danville and
somewhere in the Tidewater yeah I'm not
sure where
um and of course a lot of that
that tax money is going to stay
um like like Danville you know a portion
of that money will stay in Danville for
their schools but there is quite a bit
of that they will be going into the
general fund
um into the state general fund and um
all I can say right now is distribution
of those funds is to be determined so
but maybe we do have something to look
forward to there
so and they had a pretty good
presentation for us to have some good
numbers but they have not posted the
presentations yet on the website so I
didn't want to
say any numbers that may be incorrect
so that is all I have for you tonight
any questions on budget any questions on
the request or anything else
sales tax
in July
these little
is that a positive
pasta could occur I don't foresee that
we would start any of our sales tax
projects
before we have an idea of of the funding
that we're going to be receiving
I mean I didn't even I don't even think
that our timeline would allow for that
because we are just now have met with um
with our engineers and started forming
those plans we'd have to go out to bid
it's a lot of things that have to happen
and I don't think we would even be ready
to start spending that we will have to
pay the engineers but we already know
what that figure is and we we will
certainly you know be doing that here
um you know so that we can go ahead and
get all that started
okay
anybody else have any questions from
swirly Mr Burton you the chair of the
committee you and Mr Boone and Mr
Fitzgerald you have any comments in any
of the three of y'all
well the only thing I want to say is
this is a better report than I expected
and uh it has gotten better last year
and this year I'm just costing folks in
this room and on that's watching this
this is very early in the process yes
and we never know until the details are
done actually how we can spend the money
we receive right so just know that Tracy
especially is working hard on it we will
be meeting as we find out more
information as time gets closer to
budget approval then we'll be able to
really tell you something that's
meaningful
well the good news Mr Burton it's a
short session this year maybe they won't
wait till June before we know like we
have done so let's hope they can go on
and get it passed and get it to us
Fitzgerald it's funny y'all have
anything anything else
the only thing I have to say is that it
sounds good I know I'm new so it sounds
very positive so thank you
we've had some not very positive budgets
in the past so this will be a good year
for you to learn I hope okay thank you
thank you Miss Worley does anybody have
any questions on any of the dash reports
I do have I want to call out seven five
the December child Camp if you looked at
it it's up 18 students from last year we
continue to increase and students with
needs it's up 0.3 percent so
18 doesn't sound like a lot but it's a
whole lot when you got a service
amendment to say more about Dr heymore
so anybody have any other questions on
any of those
they always giveth and they always
taketh right
um I tonight we'll move on to the
superintendent's report
yes sir Mr Dallas school board members I
would like to to talk with you tonight
about the January 24th
um work session begins at five o'clock
the items right now that we have on the
agenda
sales tax reference of construction
Middle School sports dress code grading
reporting data on male female dress code
violations this will review appeal
process
gun free resolution tuition rate for
23.24
and then criteria for recognizing
students at school board meetings
and then school board work session prior
to regular meetings
also any questions regarding work
session topics if you have a topic
please share that with Mr Doss
and then Mr Doss will ask Mrs Hancock to
add that to the agenda
already got a pretty long so yeah bring
your lunch with I guess you're gonna
provide some
yeah a couple couple other items uh last
Thursday and Friday
administrators in Pennsylvania county
schools worked with our sheriff's
department and local
Sheriff's departments and school
divisions
and preparing for crisis I'm going to
ask Mr Scott if he can prepare a report
for you all on this in February
we are plant we plant we did some good
work on Thursday and Friday we have some
sessions that will a session that we'll
do in the springtime and then we'll have
some things that we're going to do over
the summer but unlike for Mr Scott to
provide an update for you all at the
February meeting if you would it was
outstanding Works shop I believe all of
our staff thoroughly learned a lot
through that process and so I I think
you all would want to hear a little bit
about that
also as we enter January the general
assembly is as Dr Jones spoke the
general assembly begins to meet uh
either they go into session
I will provide information to you
regarding education bills
we'll also provide our legislators
email addresses
for you all to share information with
them
and then as we know as Mrs Worley knows
about the budgets from Senate house will
provide this to you I think that's all I
had this evening any questions for me
anybody any questions from Dr Jones
okay
um there is a school board legislative
conference on January the 30th and 31st
I think three of us are going is that
correct three of us are going
so hopefully we'll come back with some
by then they'll be in session for a
while I think the lobbyists will be able
to tell us more then usually it's a very
good session to attend
there are no unfinished business items
under new business appointment of the
2023 School Board committees you have at
your seat that new assignment list
if you have any questions or concerns
please let me know
and then the final item is a joint
budget meeting with the Board of
Supervisors I was at the last Board of
supervised and I think they asked Mr
Hunt to try to get with us to set a date
up did that has he done that yet he has
not he and I have emailed back and forth
that he does not have a date okay I do
know that he was asked to do that I'm
pretty sure
anything else
second roll call please
Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye
aye males yes Mr Moon
Mr dolls